Add basic documentation for new app on k8s (#4342)
alphagov/govuk-developer-docs: source/kubernetes/create-app/index.html.md

---
title: Create a new application on the GOV.UK Kubernetes Platform
weight: 20
layout: multipage_layout
---

> # Create a new application on the GOV.UK Kubernetes Platform

Author: Good question 💡 

The manual does explicitly call it `GOV.UK Kubernetes cluster documentation for developers` - so it _is_ there, but also kinda redundant!

## Assumptions

This guide assumes the following:

- You have completed all the steps in the ["get started" guide](/manual/get-started.html) of the
  developer docs
- You are deploying an application named `example` (make sure to replace this with your
  application name in all steps as needed)

> - You have generated an initial application and pushed it to a Github repository under the
>   `alphagov` organisation with the `govuk` and `container` labels applied (this triggers setup of a
>   number of Github Actions secrets from the organisation and permissions required for workflows)

Reviewer: Nit: simplification
```suggestion
- You have pushed the application source code to a Github repository under the
  `alphagov` organisation with the `govuk` and `container` labels applied (this triggers setup of a
  number of Github Actions secrets from the organisation and permissions required for workflows)
```

- You have set up the application in [GOV.UK Docker](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-docker) (not
  covered by this guide) so that others can run it locally (this will also help you understand what
  environment configuration your application needs, especially if it is an existing application

>   rather than a brand new one)

Reviewer: Don't think this assumption necessary to make to get an application deployed to our k8s cluster. Maybe remove it here? or make it a suggestion later on?

Reviewer: Maybe what's more pertinent is that the application is containerised? I.e. has a Dockerfile

- You have a Sentry project configured for your application (through `govuk-infrastructure`)

## Add Github Actions workflows

### Add CI workflow

> What your Continuous Integration (CI) workflow looks like will depend on the linting and testing
> needs of your application, but will act as a dependency for further workflows to block deployment in
> case of failure. A Rails application would usually run RSpec unit and integration/system tests and
> Rubocop.

Reviewer: Nit: Avoid going into specific examples here - (makes this document less brittle)

```suggestion
What your Continuous Integration (CI) workflow looks like will depend on the linting and testing
needs of your application, but will act as a dependency for further workflows to block deployment in
case of failure.
```

This workflow should have a name of `CI`. If you're not sure what to include in this workflow, find
an existing GOV.UK application similar to yours and use its configuration as a starting point (by
convention, the workflow should be in `.github/workflows/ci.yml`).

### Add release workflow

Add a workflow invoking the shared release workflow template to `.github/workflows/release.yml`, for
example:

```yml
name: Release

on:
  workflow_dispatch:
  workflow_run:
    workflows: [CI]
    types: [completed]
    branches: [main]

jobs:
  release:
    if: github.event_name == 'workflow_dispatch' || github.event.workflow_run.conclusion == 'success'
    name: Release
    uses: alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/.github/workflows/release.yml@main
    secrets:
      GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GOVUK_CI_GITHUB_API_TOKEN }}

> ```

Reviewer: Because these workflow definition get updated not infrequently - we might wanna point to an existing workflow definition (e.g. in Whitehall) to copy, rather than have another bit of code in docs to maintain.

> **Note**

> > You may need to manually create a `v0` tag (e.g. against the most recent commit) in your
> > repository for the `release` workflow to pick up on and start automatically creating releases with
> > incremented versions.

Reviewer: We need to be specific that they need to create a GitHub release and not just a git tag.
```suggestion
> You may need to manually create a `v0` GitHub release (e.g. against the most recent commit) in your
> repository for the `release` workflow to pick up on and start automatically creating releases with
> incremented versions.
```

Author: Interesting - I've definitely only created a `v0` tag rather than a release, and then relied on the workflow to create the `v1` release and tag based on that. The only reason this is really necessary (I think) is because the workflow fails to run if there isn't an initial tag around to increment 😕

        required: true
        type: choice
        options:
        - integration
        - staging
        - production
        default: 'integration'
  release:
    types: [released]

jobs:
  build-and-publish-image:
    if: github.event_name == 'workflow_dispatch' || startsWith(github.ref_name, 'v')
    name: Build and publish image
    uses: alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/.github/workflows/build-and-push-image.yml@main
    with:
      gitRef: ${{ inputs.gitRef || github.ref_name }}
    secrets:
      AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID: ${{ secrets.AWS_GOVUK_ECR_ACCESS_KEY_ID }}
      AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY: ${{ secrets.AWS_GOVUK_ECR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY }}
  trigger-deploy:
    name: Trigger deploy to ${{ inputs.environment || 'integration' }}
    needs: build-and-publish-image
    uses: alphagov/govuk-infrastructure/.github/workflows/deploy.yml@main
    with:
      imageTag: ${{ needs.build-and-publish-image.outputs.imageTag }}
      environment: ${{ inputs.environment || 'integration' }}
    secrets:
      WEBHOOK_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GOVUK_ARGO_EVENTS_WEBHOOK_TOKEN }}
      WEBHOOK_URL: ${{ secrets.GOVUK_ARGO_EVENTS_WEBHOOK_URL }}
      GH_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GOVUK_CI_GITHUB_API_TOKEN }}

> ```

Reviewer: Same as above - this is already out of date

## Add image tag files to `govuk-helm-charts`

> [GOV.UK Helm Charts](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-helm-charts) uses image tag files to keep
> track of the image used for the active deployment in each environment. Add an initial tag file named
> after your application into the `image-tags` folder for each of the four environments, i.e.

Reviewer: Nit: simplification
```suggestion
[GOV.UK Helm Charts](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-helm-charts) uses image tag files to keep
track of the image tag deployed into each environment. Add an initial image tag file named
after your application into the `image-tags` folder for each of the four environments, i.e.
```

`charts/app-config/image-tags/{test,integration,staging/production}/example`:

```

> image_tag: v1

Reviewer: If we use latest, the image tag is valid right off the bat.
```suggestion
image_tag: latest
```

Reviewer: It'll obviously get updated to v1 as soon as the deploy happens

automatic_deploys_enabled: true

> promote_deployment: true

Reviewer: Nit: we don't promote this initial deployment
```suggestion
promote_deployment: false
```

```

## Add initial secrets to AWS Secrets Manager

### Sentry

In order to set up Sentry for your app, you will need a _DSN_ from the Sentry UI. This must be
manually added as a key/value pair to the `govuk/common/sentry` secret in all three environments.

You can use `gds-cli aws govuk-{integration/staging/production}-poweruser -l` to log in to the AWS

> Console for each environment and make the change.

Reviewer: I'd remove this, we don't need to tell people how to log into AWS in this document.

## Add app to `app-config` chart values

### Start with integration

Start off by adding your app to the integration environment by adding it to the array of application
Helm chart values in `charts/app-config/values-integration.yaml`. This can be as simple as:

```yml
- name: example
```

This will use the [generic-govuk-app][generic-app] Helm chart to set up your application. You can
find the default values in `values.yaml` in the chart folder, and amend your configuration's
`helmValues` value to override them.

For example, if your app needs a `RETICULATE_SPLINES` environment variable set to "1" in a given
environment, your integration configuration could look like this:

```yml
- name: example
  helmValues:
    extraEnv:
      - name: RETICULATE_SPLINES
        value: 1
```

There are configuration options available for a wide range of different needs your application may
have, from mounting volumes to disabling the default asset upload.

### Validate your deployment

You can now visit [Integration Argo CD][argo] and after a short wait, your new application will be

> available to find on the dashboard.

Reviewer: They'll need to have make sure their container image has been built and successfully pushed to ECR beforehand. Essentially they just need to run the deploy GitHub Action.

When your application has successfully deployed, you can try to access it through `kubectl`'s

> [port forwarding feature](/kubernetes/fix-app/#port-forwarding-to-a-pod).

Reviewer: Ah yeah, it's difficult to know where to stop here. I'd say this might be confusing, as most apps should have an ingress associated which would just make them accessible.
